# Udacity Full Stack Interview Practice Questions
This repository will hold my answers to the practice interview questions that are part of Udacity's Full Stack Web Development Nanodegree. Text answers will be located in the readme, while code answers will be stored as separate files.

## Questions
Q. **What is the most influential book or blog post you’ve read regarding web development?**

A. I recently came across [this article](https://axesslab.com/accessibility-according-to-pwd/) through a post on Reddit. Having lived with ADHD for the bulk of my life, and having met a number of member of the deaf community, I had previously been aware of some of the concerns people had listed. However, reading through this article, I felt a combination of shame and surprise at how much I had not previously considered. This lead me to start thinking about all these situations and how to make the web more accessible. It has inspired me to go back to older projects I've made, and experiment with different ways to circumvent these issues, and create a personal toolkit for future use.

Q. **Tell me about a web application you have built. Why did you choose to build it? What did you learn? What challenges did you face and how did you overcome them?**

A. The first programming project that I considered complete was a web-based Sales Rotation for my current employer. The concept was to replace the existing Excel document that had to be manually created every night, and then printed and distributed to ten employees each day, could be replaced by a web app that would automate the processing, and present everyone with more accurate live data. I took an iterative approach to developing it by first laying out the most functional aspects of the app, and then additional stylistic features later.

Midway through its development, I decided to ask the Operations team for some feedback on the basic functionality to ensure that it made sense to everyone. What I presented was a purely functional prototype with no styles added. Unfortunately, while I had a complete understanding of the app since I built it, the Operations department struggled to contextualize it the same way that I did. After quelling what nearly seemed like a riot, I went back to my desk and added some styles to the app to make it look like something closer to completion and went back one more time. The change in response shocked me. Everyone loved it, minus a few constructive criticisms. I took away from this experience that not everyone will see your project through the same lens that you do, and that communication is just as important to the success of a project as the code behind it.

Q. **Write a function in Python that takes a list of strings and returns a single string that is an HTML unordered list of those strings. You should include a brief explanation of your code. Then, what would you have to consider if the original list was provided by user input?**

A. The code for this answer can be found in the `question_2.py` file. The file contains a Python function which accepts a list as an argument. After an initial result string is set with the string variable `list`, the list `l` if iterated through, and each item in the list is added to the `list` string variable wrapped in `<li></li>` tags. After the loop has completed, the closing `</ul>` is added to the string, and the entire string is return. A simple test case is provided contain a list of fruit names as strings. If you wanted to use a similar function to accept user input, you would need to add an input box for a user to enter information, and then add another function that would capture that information, and pass it to the `return_list` function.

Q. **List 2-3 attacks that web applications are vulnerable to. How do these attacks work? How can we prevent those attacks?**

A. One type of attack would be a SQL Injection Attack. In such an attack, someone would usually enter a string into a form input, or as part of a URL that might resemble `Robert'); DROP TABLE Students;--` (the infamous [Little Bobby Tables example](https://xkcd.com/327/)). In this particular instance, if the application had a table called `Students`, it could be potentially be deleted, and all data located within it would be lost. To prevent such an attack, you can use a library to santize the inputs on your site, preventing any unauthorized SQL from being passed and executed. If you are writing your app in Python, Bleach is one such library.

Another type of attack is called an XSS attack. An XSS attack occurs when someone injects a malicious script into a site that would otherwise contain no malware. The most common way that this would happen is similar to the SQL Injection Attack, where the attacker may enter some malicious information into an input on the site. This could be a script or a link to a script. With the script in place, the previously safe website can now server that harmful script to users of the site, and it can do a variety of things, which include stealing session cookies, making unauthorized AJAX requests, or gather information about the user, which might include their location. The same steps as above can be taken to prevent an XSS attack, as well as santizing markup on a page, especially information located within `<script>` tags. Bleach can also be used to handle this.

A third type of attack is referred to as a CRSF attack. A CRSF attack involves someone redirecting an action executed by a website where you are currently authenticated. An attacker could redirect a deposit into your bank account, to another bank account, or redirect the contents of an email to another server. Protecting from a CRSF attack would involve using a randomly generated secret key for authenticating users with cookies. Some libraries have built in methods for CRSF protection, the Flask-WTF library for Flask being one of them.

Q. **Here is some starter code for a Flask Web Application. Expand on that and include a route that simulates rolling two dice and returns the result in JSON. You should include a brief explanation of your code.**

A. The `/dice` route starts by creating the dictionary `data` that will eventually hold the JSON results in the list created as the value to the 'rolls' key. The for loop that follows then appends a dictionary to to the aforementioned list, holding the value of a random die roll, over each iteration. After the loop is completed, an instance of Flask's `Response` object is created, creating a response that actually creates the JSON data, and sending the proper headers over to the browser. If the headers were not specified, the browser would just interpret the JSON dump as plain text, instead of JSON data. The response is then returned and displayed in the browser. The entire route was designed so that if additional dice rolls were to be implemented, they could be easily added, and could even be taken as user input.

Q. **If you were to start your full-stack developer position today, what would be your goals a year from now?**

A.
